docs/bootstrap.rst, before:

.. _bootstrap:

Setting up a dev instance
=========================

Setting up an Open Library dev instance requires installing third-party
software and running many services.

Supported Platforms
-------------------

The Open Library dev instance has been tested on the following platforms.

* Ubuntu 10.10
* Ubuntu 10.04
* Mac OS X Snow Leopard

Make sure you have at least 1GB of RAM on your dev machine or virtual machine.

Installing dependencies
-----------------------

Open Library depends a lot of third-party programs as well as a whole
bunch of python libraries. 

To install all the dependencies on Ubuntu::

    $ wget -O - http://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary/raw/master/scripts/install_dependencies.sh | bash
    
To install all the dependencies on Mac OS X::

    $ curl http://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary/raw/master/scripts/install_dependencies.sh | bash
    
The list of dependencies is available at :doc:`appendices/dependencies`.

Getting the source
------------------

Open Library uses ``git`` for version control and the `code repository`_ is
hosted on github.

.. _code repository: http://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary

You can get the source code from there using::

   $ git clone git://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary.git

This will create a directory called openlibrary with the entire
codebase checked out. 
  
Running the install script
--------------------------

The installation is driven by the ``conf/install.ini`` config
file. Edit it if you need customize the installation process.

Now you're ready to go. Run the setuptools ``bootstrap`` command to do
the everything.::

    $ python setup.py bootstrap

The bootstrap command creates a virtualenv, installs all necessary
python packages, installs vendor software and initializes the OL
databases. A detailed log is written to ``var/log/install.log`` and
info and errors are reported to stdout and stderr respectively.

Verify the installation
-----------------------
*TDB* (insert notes on how to run smoke tests here).


Using the dev instance
----------------------

Once in the installation is done, running dev instance is very simple.::

    $ python setup.py start
	
This starts all the OL services using `supervisord <http://supervisord.org/>`_.

Once the services are started, Open Library dev instance will be available at:

http://0.0.0.0:8080/

Logs of the running services will be available in ``var/log/``.


Loading sample data
-------------------

Loading sample data is not yet implemented.

Commit message:

Added intructions to fetch css and js files from the website.
Openlibrary uses css and js files from the database. Until this is
fixed, the latest css and js files must be fetched from the website.

docs/bootstrap.rst, after:

.. _bootstrap:

Setting up a dev instance
=========================

Setting up an Open Library dev instance requires installing third-party
software and running many services.

Supported Platforms
-------------------

The Open Library dev instance has been tested on the following platforms.

* Ubuntu 10.10
* Ubuntu 10.04
* Mac OS X Snow Leopard

Make sure you have at least 1GB of RAM on your dev machine or virtual machine.

Installing dependencies
-----------------------

Open Library depends a lot of third-party programs as well as a whole
bunch of python libraries. 

To install all the dependencies on Ubuntu::

    $ wget -O - http://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary/raw/master/scripts/install_dependencies.sh | bash
    
To install all the dependencies on Mac OS X::

    $ curl http://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary/raw/master/scripts/install_dependencies.sh | bash
    
The list of dependencies is available at :doc:`appendices/dependencies`.

Getting the source
------------------

Open Library uses ``git`` for version control and the `code repository`_ is
hosted on github.

.. _code repository: http://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary

You can get the source code from there using::

   $ git clone git://github.com/openlibrary/openlibrary.git

This will create a directory called openlibrary with the entire
codebase checked out. 
  
Running the install script
--------------------------

The installation is driven by the ``conf/install.ini`` config
file. Edit it if you need customize the installation process.

Now you're ready to go. Run the setuptools ``bootstrap`` command to do
the everything.::

    $ python setup.py bootstrap

The bootstrap command creates a virtualenv, installs all necessary
python packages, installs vendor software and initializes the OL
databases. A detailed log is written to ``var/log/install.log`` and
info and errors are reported to stdout and stderr respectively.

Get css and js files
--------------------

Openlibrary uses css and js files from the database. Until this is fixed, get the latest css and js files using::

    $ python setup.py shell
    $ ./scripts/copydocs.py /upstream/css/* /upstream/js/*
    ...
    $ exit

Verify the installation
-----------------------
*TDB* (insert notes on how to run smoke tests here).


Using the dev instance
----------------------

Once in the installation is done, running dev instance is very simple.::

    $ python setup.py start
	
This starts all the OL services using `supervisord <http://supervisord.org/>`_.

Once the services are started, Open Library dev instance will be available at:

http://0.0.0.0:8080/

Logs of the running services will be available in ``var/log/``.


Loading sample data
-------------------

Loading sample data is not yet implemented.
